Metanet is a distributed platform-independent service for creating, managing and exploring complex knowledge networks build for social and artistic researches. The software architecture involves multiple distributed components responsible for different aspects of maintaining and representing related semantic and topographic information. A main focus of this project is to enable access to a dynamically growing and large knowledge database with intuitive and sophisticated user interfaces on multiple information levels. One software component is a mobile location-based blogging application, used by the researcher for recording information in the public domain, like urban areas where social and/or architectural aspects are an interesting research topic. Mobile blogs are annotated with location information and a set of semantic data like keywords, contextual parameters/text and pictures. Individual blogs or a set of blogs can be send to an application server immediately. A web-based application is used for mapping, managing and observing collected artifacts for a representation within a virtual map, related to an interactive multidimensional graph. The annotations within the cartographic interface through individual symbols are an expressive representation of distinct activities. By focusing on areas of interest within the map, an sub-view extraction of the graph is triggered. This view contains the correlated semantic dimensions with other artifacts, belonging to the same contextual domain. Furthermore, each artifact can be linked to additional data like videos and audible information. Through this kind of interaction and visual representation the observer receives information much more effective, which usually has a deep impact in understanding and learning, especially within a complex knowledge scenario.